Thiel Fellowship Application Project Description 
jpt4 
UTC20151007

Pervasively Reconfigurable Computing (PRC) collapses the dependency
graph of computing to its root node.

PRC's primary goal is to build a general purpose computer that suffers
no further dependencies than the correct function of its primitive,
homogeneous circuit elements, called "Universal Cells". PRC is thus
similar, though independent in origin and motivation, to MIT's
Reconfigurable Asynchronous Logic Automata project.

Every UC must support:
1. Reversible logic
2. Asynchronous operation
3. Explicit signal and power routing
4. Organic reconfigurability

The current realization of a PRC machine proposes a hexagonal lattice
of Reversible Logic Elements with Memory. RLEMs are 3-port,
reversible, asynchronous circuit primitives with one bit of
per-element memory. Arranging these in a hexagonal lattice requires
any circuit built upon them to be geometrically explicit - the wiring
between elements must be as equally formally specified as the sequence
of logic operations. With sub-byte-length per element message passing,
each node can be re-programmed to act as a wire (routing), 1-bit
processor (logic), or stem (reconfiguration) cell. Within the lattice,
logical operations take the form of rotational redirections of
incoming signals, depending on the current memory state of the
cell. An associated memory state change can reverse the rotation
of subsequent signals. Cells can be probed to determine their memory
state by observing along which output terminal an incoming signal
exits. Within a lattice, RLEMs unify the treatment of logic, routing,
and memory.

A switchable, latching, ferrite junction circulator is a passive
electromagnetic radiation (EMR) circuit element with behavior
correspondent to RLEMs; they act as rotary waveguides with
electrically variable, and magnetically persistable,
chirality. Circulators equipped with auxiliary electronics to process
reconfiguration messages could implement hybrid electronic/EMR
lattices of Universal Cells.

PRC is the current refinement of two decades of interest in the
mechanisms of cognitive entities. The project per se began upon
deciding two years ago that a general purpose AI (the test platform of
choice for cognition at the extremes) would be best served by
embodied, introspective self-modifiability. It has since been my
independent research effort, and an exemplar of Whorfian
autodidactism: lacking formal training regarding digital circuitry
(having previously inclined towards the abstract/philosophical
elements of cognitive/computer science), progress regularly hinged on
the appropriate within-discipline search term query.

The project has rapidly codified in the past six months, with the
establishment of a theoretical basis in RLEMs, and a physical analogue
in EMR circulators. The main effort is currently dedicated to
formalizing a modular, Mealy machine-style UC model, and programming a
lattice simulator.

Spaced logarithmically, salient deliverables include:

1. Automatic derivation from mathematical lattices to equivalent code.

2. Self-hosted, compile-to-UC programming language(s).

3. Integrated UC manufacture of corporeal lattices.

4. Seed-of-a-seed-of-a-seed test AI.

As a revisionary project, the re-encapsulation of computing logistics
through the lens of pervasive reconfigurability intersperses with
these Schwerpunkts. The prospect, however, of a machine of one's own
devising, and ultimately, its own devising, is as sufficient
encouragement to persevere as it was to begin.