Describe your company in 50 characters or less.
We build computronium.

What is your company going to make?

Pervasively reconfigurable computing (PRC) hardware and its attendant
software stack. PRC formally specifies an asynchronous, logically
reversible, reconfigurable foundation for computing systems. PRC
hardware is composed of a homogenous matrix of bitwise processors,
each capable of executing a restricted set of logic, routing, and
reconfiguration operations. Our software will allow programmers to
take advantage of this fine-grained semantic resolution, to reason in
a unified manner about the behavior of their code from the bare metal
upwards, and modify any layer of the supporting architecture.

Why this idea? Existing domain expertise? How do you know there is a
need?

PRC is the organic culmination of our interests in high level
architectures (e.g. LISP machines, Burroughs Large Systems),
non-Boolean digital logics, self-modifiable artificial intelligences,
and the desire for a totemic computing platform over which the
operator has sovereign control, unto its most basic components.

We have extensive experience with functional programming and the
theory behind digital circuitry, but not in its manufacture.

No abstraction is perfectly hygienic; modern software development has
increasingly become a co-ordination of interacting components whose
sum resists comprehension, and thus analysis when the guarantees of an
interface are not kept. Difficult problems need a medium for their
solution that does not conceal any layer from audit, and always offers
the possibility of complete de novo construction.

How novel? What currently substitutes?

No other computing hardware, to the limits of our research, has
provided the blend of technologies PRC does. Thus, no products have
been built that employ the advantages PRC offers. Reconfigurability
and asynchrony are largely features of software, not hardware. Logical
reversibility is a property of only a few debugging systems, again in
software. Because end users can not inspect and modify the hardware
they rely on from OEMs, they either grow large enough to commission
their own (e.g. Google's custom datacenter servers and their
acquisition of Motorola), or stay small enough that homebrew solutions
are sufficient (every hacker who built their own 8/16 bit computer
from scratch).

Competitors? Fear?

Altera (and thus Intel), Xilinx, and the FPGA/soft IP core industry in
general are our most direct competitors. However, our greatest fear is
a materials science advance that resumes pre-2005 iterations in
Moore's Law for conventional CPUs before PRC harware enters the
market. Whether RISC versus CISC in the early '90s, the Transputer and
other asynchronous machines versus sychronous clocked microprocessors
in the '80s, or cryotronics versus silicon ICs in the '60s, ten
billion dollars worth of muscle dedicated to known processes can
overwhelm the structural advantages of alternative architectures. At
present, the Hz/Watt/$ ratio is in a trough where PRC can establish
itself, then reap the benefits of e.g. graphene, 3D-transistors, or
quantum advances in step with the rest of the industry.

Understand that others don't?

We recognize that the market exists. To our knowledge, no other
company is currently pursuing the mix of technologies that Autark is
with PRC. Theseus Logic is no longer developing their Null Convention
Logic asynchronous systems, which were neither reconfigurable nor
reversible. Tabula, now defunct, worked towards compiling high level
symbolic languages to Boolean logic circuits, but targeted
FPGAs. MIT's Center for Bits and Atoms patented their Reconfigurable
Asynchronous Logic Automata architecture (which is an acknowledged
influence on PRC), but did no further exploration into reversible or
non-Boolean logic.

The audience for fine grained reconfigurable, reversible,
asynchronous, formally defined hardware is not served at present, and
likely will not be in the absence of Autark.

Revenue streams/potential max?

Autark will sell PRC hardware and software, as well as consult for
specific clients on its application.

A mature Autark would be Xilinx-scale in terms of revenue,
approximately 2.5 billion USD per year, both through partial capture
of the FPGA and CPU spaces, and the novel market for PRC hardware.

Get users?

Initially, by appealing to that mass of the software engineering
community that pines for the Commodore 64 age when a computer could be
comprehended, or at least inspected, in its totality. Wherever LISP
and SmallTalk machines are discussed nostagically, the potential for
PRC hardware, even in toy form, is high. This would cultivate a high
quality userbase for further refinement and market research into
specific applications until Autark can produce Intel-grade machines.

Surprising/amusing discovery.

InstaMorph (thermoset moldable plastic) is not a suitable model rocket
nosecone material - it will very quickly turn your KNO3 and sugar
powered rocket into a KNO3 and sugar powered recoilless rifle.

Why YC?  

Y Combinator has demonstrated a vision of its influence on the future
more nuanced than that of the stereotypical venture capital
firm. While remaining intensely profit focused, it is obvious through
the words and deeds surrounding YC Fellowship, YC Research, and OpenAI
that the minds behind Y Combinator are willing to support endeavors
that derive their high risk/reward profile because they are bets on
technological advancements, not merely business execution.

Autark necessarily hinges on our ability to figure out how to build,
and build upon, PRC hardware. Y Combinator is one of the few
accelerators we know of able to understand and willing to accept this
variety of risk.
